# README #

### RISE REST API Builder ###

### What is this repository for? ###

* Quick summary
REST API and micro services are the basic building block of the distributed applications. It is hard for software engineers to understand all the APIs required for the whole application. Especially when they have small team and limited resources. RISE REST Builder aims to facilitate such software engineers to build the backend modules and add required business logic at the appropriate place. Intended software engineer only need to define their data model in the JSON format, which is one of the most popular serialized form of the object. Based on the JSON model, REST Builder generates REST API, database classes and configuration files in the form of a maven project. Our generated REST APIs are dropwizard compatible therefore all the features of dropwizard are available in the generated REST API. Based on the given JSON, REST Builder generates a maven project which is ready for build and deployment. For more information about the role of each class is specified in the comments sections of the file/class. Currently, REST Builder supports java-based source code. This JSON object has following attributes:

    • mavenGroupId: Specify the Group ID for maven project. this is a String filed and must satisfy the rules used for defining a package in java. Default values are ri.se

    • mavenArtifact: Represents the Artifact defined in the Maven project. Default value is rise

    • className: Represents the name of class, service and database relation. It is a mandatory attribute. 

    • out: Path of the output files (in this case output of the directory where maven project will be stored)

    • port: Port for the REST API (in v1.0, using default port 8080 for application and 8081 for administrator)

    • column: A Key-value type list where name of attribute and associated data type is specified. Currently our software supports java basic datatypes (), String and Date objects. 

    • idColumn: Used to define the unique values of the objected when storing in the database. If a key-value with the same name is mentioned in the column then this filed will use the same datatype otherwise its default datatype is int.


*  1.0
*  JSON Object Example (genrest.json)

	{

	  "mavenGroupId": "com.ri.se",

	  "mavenArtifact": "rise",

	  "className": "DAPRequest",

	  "out": "/home/vm/Desktop/iot/",

	  "port": 0,

	  "column": {

	    "iotid": “long”,

	    "type": "String",

	    "value": “double”,

	    "enrtydate": "Date",

	    "owner": "String",

	    "address": "String",

	    "others": "String"

	  },

	  "idColumn": " iotid"

	}


### How do I get set up? ###

*  Summary of set up

	To configure RISE REST Builder for generating java based dropwizard compatible source code.  Clone source code from git and then build it as a maven project.

*  Configuration

	Create JSON data model and place it in the project folder i.e. com.ri.se.generator with the  name as genrest.json

*  Dependencies

	Install Java 1.8 or higher version, maven  

*  Database configuration

	Generator does t does not depend on any database, but the REST AP generated by the Builder requires database. Our sample API was with mysql database. 

*  How to build

	Once software is downloaded then execute mvn package command. 

*  Deployment instructions

	To run this software, execute following command.
	java -jar target/com.ri.se.generator-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar

### Build and Compile Generated REST API guidelines ###

*  Building REST API

	Check README.txt of newly generated source code.  
